TRIM_PITCH_CD updates (#3807)
ArduPilot/ardupilot_wiki: plane/source/docs/tuning-cruise.rst

In the automatic throttle controlled modes, :ref:`TRIM_ARSPD_CM<TRIM_ARSPD_CM>` is used for the target airspeed if an airspeed sensor is being used, while :ref:`TRIM_THROTTLE<TRIM_THROTTLE>` will be set for the throttle value if no sensor is used. The :ref:`THROTTLE_NUDGE<THROTTLE_NUDGE>` option allows the pilot to tweak this value while in flight with the throttle, if desired in these modes.

.. warning:: While :ref:`TRIM_THROTTLE<TRIM_THROTTLE>` is not used when using an airspeed sensor directly, it is important to set it at a working value, since it will be used in case of an airspeed sensor failure.

AHRS Level Attitude
===================

> During :ref:`common-accelerometer-calibration`, a "level" attitude position is set with the wings perfectly level. Often for planes, the trim "level" position has the nose raised a few degrees. This is explained in the diagrams below and is known as the trim condition. Most planes fly with a few degrees of Angle of Attack (AOA) and while many planes will have some Angle of Incidence (i.e., the cord of the wing is at a positive angle to the fuselage cord) built-in, some do not, and some need a slightly higher AOA to fly at lower cruise speeds. If the level step of calibration is done with the plane's fuselage line level, initial flights will be safe, but the aircraft may lose altitude due to not having enough lift. There are a few options to produce more lift and improve the trim condition for FBWA mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During :ref:`common-accelerometer-calibration`, a "level" attitude position is set with the wings perfectly level. Often for planes, the trim "level" position has the nose raised a few degrees. This is explained in the diagrams below and is known as the trim condition. Most planes fly with a few degrees of Angle of Attack (AOA) and while many planes will have some Angle of Incidence (i.e., the cord of the wing is at a positive angle to the fuselage cord) built-in, some do not, and some need a slightly higher AOA to fly at desired cruise speeds. If the level step of calibration is done with the plane's fuselage line level, initial flights will be safe, but the aircraft may not hold altitude at the desired flying speed in non-altitude controlled modes (ie. fly too fast and/or require too much throttle to hold altitude) . There are a few options to  improve the trim condition for non-altitude controlled modes, such as FBWA, usually to trim for a lower cruising speed:
```

> - Add a few extra degrees nose up when during the Level step of 3-axis calibration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Position vehicle with a few degrees nose up  during the first, Level step of accelerometer calibration.
```

> - Add a few extra degrees nose up and use the  ``Calibrate Level`` button on the Mission Planner page to adjust the AHRS_TRIM parameters. AHRS_TRIM parameters can only change the difference between the autopilot's plane and "level" by 10 degrees maximum. If more is needed, (e.g., the autopilot is mounted slightly downward), then you can use :ref:`TRIM_PITCH_CD<TRIM_PITCH_CD>` to alter the AOA manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Position vehicle with a few degrees nose up and use the  ``Calibrate Level`` button on the Mission Planner page to adjust the AHRS_TRIM parameters. AHRS_TRIM parameters can only change the difference between the autopilot's plane and "level" by 10 degrees maximum. If more is needed, (e.g., the autopilot is mounted slightly downward), then you can use :ref:`TRIM_PITCH_CD<TRIM_PITCH_CD>` to alter the AOA manually.
```

> - Add a few degrees nose up to :ref:`TRIM_PITCH_CD<TRIM_PITCH_CD>`. This will also add an offset to the artificial horizon on a GCS or an OSD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **(Preferred)** Add a few degrees nose up to :ref:`TRIM_PITCH_CD<TRIM_PITCH_CD>`. This will also add an offset to the artificial horizon on a GCS or an OSD.
```

> - Increase :ref:`TRIM_ARSPD_CM<TRIM_ARSPD_CM>`. (Increase :ref:`TRIM_THROTTLE<TRIM_THROTTLE>` if an airspeed sensor or synthetic airspeed is not used)

Reviewer: remove...this has no impact on non-altitude controlled modes, which is what we are trimming

Author: Did the wrong hunk end up in this comment? This has everything to do with FBWA and STABLIZE holding altitude.

Reviewer: these are all bullets under:
"There are a few options to  improve the trim condition for non-altitude controlled modes, such as FBWA, usually to trim for a lower cruising speed:"
trim_arspd_cm has nothing to do with FBWA at all..the comment is on removing the last bullet...that is the line I tagged

Author: It was throwing me off that github was showing the leading lines. Move that to the FBWB/CRUISE section.

While the autopilot will operate correctly with minor offsets to the calibrated "level" attitude, optimum performance will occur if this is adjusted to match the pitch attitude that the autopilot tends to use in automatic throttle modes. This can be done by examining the average ``ATT.pitch`` value during level altitude flight from dataflash logs or in-flight on an artificial horizon (e.g., GCS or OSD HUD). Make slight adjustments to the :ref:`TRIM_PITCH_CD<TRIM_PITCH_CD>` parameter value based on the value seen on the artificial horizon. Making these adjustments also will allow STABILIZE and FBWA modes to hold altitude at the same throttle level as used in the other modes.

.. image:: ../../../images/AOA.jpg

The autopilot's priority is to obtain the correct combination of elevator and throttle to maintain constant altitude flight. How the autopilot does this is detailed in :ref:`tecs-total-energy-control-system-for-speed-height-tuning-guide`.

> The :ref:`STAB_PITCH_DOWN<STAB_PITCH_DOWN>` parameter will add "nose-down" trim when the throttle stick is lowered in pilot throttle controlled and stabilized modes, such as FBWA, to prevent the autopilot from holding the nose up as the plane slows down and potentially causing a stall. This can be tested, at altitude, in FBWA mode by moving the throttle to idle and checking that there is sufficient airspeed in a turn to avoid stalling. Be prepared to recover from a stall! Increase the value of :ref:`STAB_PITCH_DOWN<STAB_PITCH_DOWN>`, if necessary.

Reviewer: this and probably should be moved to the acc cal page since it will be read by everyone (supposedly)...as a warning...its not really a cruise thing

Reviewer: again this is what shows when you tag line 35 for a comment

Author: Moved to accel cal page.

> .. tip:: For small planes or gliders, it is important that :ref:`STAB_PITCH_DOWN<STAB_PITCH_DOWN>` be set correctly. It might be desireable to increase STAB_PITCH_DOWN more than the default value of 2 degrees.

Reviewer: redundant to above paragraph

Reviewer: and here...line 37

Author: The parameter can be important to many aircraft. As you said, it is particularly important for smaller aircraft or low Reynolds number aircraft so I called those out in an admonition.

Reviewer: the tip is a redudant restatement of the paragraph above...the sentence above it states essentially what the tip says

Author: The paragraph is describing the purpose of the parameter, the cases where it comes into play, where it is useful, and how to test it. The tip is calling out that it is more important for smaller birds and suggests in these cases that changes might be desirable.

Adjusting FBWB or CRUISE Mode Airspeed
======================================

> When using an airspeed sensor in FBWB or CRUISE, the target airspeed can be directly controlled with the throttle stick position. Mid throttle will set the speed as halfway between :ref:`ARSPD_FBW_MAX<ARSPD_FBW_MAX>` (high stick) and :ref:`ARSPD_FBW_MIN<ARSPD_FBW_MIN>` (low stick). Without an airspeed sensor, the :ref:`TRIM_THROTTLE<TRIM_THROTTLE>` parameter would need to be changed appropriately for the desired mid-stick cruise speed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using an airspeed sensor in FBWB or CRUISE, the target airspeed can be directly controlled with the throttle stick position. Mid throttle will set the speed as halfway between :ref:`ARSPD_FBW_MAX<ARSPD_FBW_MAX>` (high stick) and :ref:`ARSPD_FBW_MIN<ARSPD_FBW_MIN>` (low stick). 

Without an airspeed sensor, the :ref:`TRIM_THROTTLE<TRIM_THROTTLE>` parameter would need to be changed appropriately for the desired mid-stick cruise speed. 
```
